"# Student-Management-System" 
"Student Management System" is a GUI based Java Application which manages and maintains the Student Database of any College. The Java Project maintains details of students starting from the process of admission and enrollment till their convocation. The Project has various features like allocation of unique roll numbers to the students, maintaining fee details, recording the details of students who had either dropped out or cancelled their admission, generate transcripts, etc. etc. Performing these tasks manually makes them tedious, time consuming, and prone to error. The objective of this project should be to develop a system that would automate the processes of student management which would assist the Admin department manage details of students efficiently. The Project has various user-friendly features like the text-fields in the student enrollment section fill up automatically based on the unique roll number (JEE Main Roll Number) of the student eventually reducing the human efforts and automatizing the process. The Project also contains Fee Section, Section for generating Transcripts and Maintaining the records for students dropping out and updating the same. There is a Database for all the students in the back-end which contains the entire details of all the enrolled students and another database contains the list of around 60,000 students obtained from the database of ACPC Merit List (for automatizing the process of enrollment). The Database has been managed using MySQL.
